DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# How to write your own plugin

You can extend TensorBoard to show custom visualizations and connect to custom
backends by writing a custom plugin. Clone and tinker with one of the
[examples][plugin-examples], or learn about the plugin system by following the
[ADDING_A_PLUGIN](./ADDING_A_PLUGIN.md) guide. Custom plugins can be
[published][plugin-distribution] on PyPI to be shared with the community.

Developing a custom plugin does not require Bazel or building TensorBoard.

[plugin-examples]: ./tensorboard/examples/plugins
[plugin-distribution]: ./ADDING_A_PLUGIN.md#distribution

# How to Develop TensorBoard

TensorBoard at HEAD relies on the nightly installation of TensorFlow: this allows plugin authors to use the latest features of TensorFlow, but it means release versions of TensorFlow may not suffice for development. We recommend installing TensorFlow nightly in a [Python virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io), and then running your modified development copy of TensorBoard within that virtualenv. To install TensorFlow nightly within the virtualenv, as well as TensorBoard's runtime and tooling dependencies, you can run:

```sh
$ virtualenv -p python3 tf
$ source tf/bin/activate
(tf)$ pip install --upgrade pip
(tf)$ pip install tf-nightly -r tensorboard/pip_package/requirements.txt -r tensorboard/pip_package/requirements_dev.txt
```

TensorBoard builds are done with [Bazel](https://bazel.build), so you may need to [install Bazel](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install.html). The Bazel build will automatically "vulcanize" all the HTML files and generate a "binary" launcher script. When HTML is vulcanized, it means all the script tags and HTML imports are inlined into one big HTML file. Then the Bazel build puts that index.html file inside a static assets zip. The python HTTP server then reads static assets from that zip while serving.

You can build and run TensorBoard via Bazel (from within the TensorFlow nightly virtualenv) as follows:

```sh
(tf)$ bazel run //tensorboard -- --logdir /path/to/logs
```

For any changes to the frontend, you’ll need to install [Yarn][yarn] to lint your code (`yarn lint`, `yarn fix-lint`). You’ll also need Yarn to add or remove any NPM dependencies.

For any changes to the backend, you’ll need to install [Black][black] to lint your code (run `black .`). Our `black` version is specified in `requirements_dev.txt` in this repository. Black only runs on Python 3.6 or higher, so you may want to install it into a separate virtual environment and use a [wrapper script to invoke it from any environment][black-wrapper].

You may wish to configure your editor to automatically run Prettier and Black on save.

To generate fake log data for a plugin, run its demo script. For instance, this command generates fake scalar data in `/tmp/scalars_demo`:

```sh
(tf)$ bazel run //tensorboard/plugins/scalar:scalars_demo
```

If you have Bazel≥0.16 and want to build any commit of TensorBoard prior to 2018-08-07, then you must first cherry-pick [pull request #1334][pr-1334] onto your working tree:

```
$ git cherry-pick bc4e7a6e5517daf918433a8f5983fc6bd239358f
```

[black]: https://github.com/psf/black
[black-wrapper]: https://gist.github.com/wchargin/d65820919f363d33545159138c86ce31
[pr-1334]: https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorboard/pull/1334
[yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/

## Pro tips

You may find the following optional tips useful for development.

### Ignoring large cleanup commits in `git blame`

```sh
git config blame.ignoreRevsFile .git-blame-ignore-revs  # requires Git >= 2.23
```

We maintain a list of commits with large diffs that are known to not have any
semantic effect, like mass code reformattings. As of Git 2.23, you can configure
Git to ignore these commits in the output of `git blame`, so that lines are
blamed to the most recent “real” change. Set the `blame.ignoreRevsFile` Git
config option to `.git-blame-ignore-revs` to enable this by default, or pass
`--ignore-revs-file .git-blame-ignore-revs` to enable it for a single command.
When enabled by default, this also works with editor plugins like
[vim-fugitive]. See `git help blame` and `git help config` for more details.

[vim-fugitive]: https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive

### iBazel and dev target

To make the devleopment faster, we can use run TensorBoard on dev target with iBazel.

```sh
(tf)$ ibazel run tensorboard:dev -- \
--logdir path/to/logs \
[--bind_all] \
[--port PORT_NUMBER]
```

- `ibazel`: Bazel is capable of performing incremental builds where it builds only
  the subset of files that are impacted by file changes. However, it does not come
  with a file watcher. For an improved developer experience, start TensorBoard
  with `ibazel` instead of `bazel` which will automatically re-build and start the
  server when files change.
- `:dev`: A target to bundle all dev assets with no vulcanization, which makes
  the build faster.
- `--bind_all`: Used to view the running TensorBoard over the network than
  from `localhost`, necessary when running at a remote machine and accessing
  the server from your local chrome browser.

Access your server at `http://<YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS>:<PORT_NUMBER>/` if you are
running TensorBoard at a remote machine. Otherwise `localhost:<PORT_NUMBER>` should
work.

If you do not have the ibazel binary on your system, you can use the command
below.

```sh
# Optionally run `yarn` to keep `node_modules` up-to-date.
yarn run ibazel run tensorboard:dev -- -- --logdir path/to/logs
```

### Development Using Docker

Rather than spend the time setting up a development environment, you may find it
easier to run the project using Docker.

Build the image using the following command from the root directory.
`docker build -t tensorflow/tensorboard .`

<<<<<<< HEAD
The image will only need to be rebuilt when a new dependency is added or an existing
dependency is updated.

=======
>>>>>>> de7b78537 (add ibazel update development.md)
Once the image is successfully built you can easily start up a development environment
with the following command

```
docker run \
    -p 6006:6006 \
    -v $PWD/tensorboard:/tensorboard/tensorboard \
    -v $MY_LOG_DIR:/logdir \
    tensorflow/tensorboard \
    ibazel run tensorboard:dev -- --logdir /logdir --bind_all
```

TensorBoard will now be accessible at [localhost:6006](http://localhost:6006)

<<<<<<< HEAD
For continued development you may want to either save the compiled project with
another volume mount or else plan to reuse the same container to prevent having
to repeatedly clean compile the project.

Note that it may still be necessary to run tensorboard natively in order to test
compatibility with other platforms (i.e. OSX)

=======
>>>>>>> de7b78537 (add ibazel update development.md)
### Debugging Polymer UI Tests Locally

Our UI tests (e.g., //tensorboard/components/vz_sorting/test) for our polymer code base
use HTML import which is now deprecated from all browsers (Chrome 79- had the native
support)and is run without any polyfills. In order to debug tests, you may want to
run a a Chromium used by our CI that supports HTML import. It can be found in
`./bazel-bin/third_party/chromium/chromium.out` (exact path to binary will
differ by OS you are on; for Linux, the full path is
`./bazel-bin/third_party/chromium/chromium.out/chrome-linux/chrome`).

For example of the vz_sorting test,

```sh
# Run the debug instance of the test. It should run a web server at a dynamic
# port.
bazel run tensorboard/components/vz_sorting/test:test_web_library

# In another tab:

# Fetch, if missing, the Chromium
bazel build third_party/chromium
./bazel-bin/third_party/chromium/chromium.out/chrome-linux/chrome

# Lastly, put the address returnd by the web server into the Chromium.
```

### Debugging Angular UI Tests Locally

Here is a short summary of the various commands and their primary function. Please see below for more details. We recommand using `ibazle test` for regular work and `bazel run` for deep dive debugging.

- `bazel test/run`: runs tests once and done.
- `ibazel test`: supports file watching.
- `ibazle run`: provides karma console breakpoint debugging; does not support file watching.
- Both `ibazel test` and `ibazel run` supports `console.log` and `fit/fdescribe`, which are used to narrow down the test amount.

1.  Just run all webapp tests. The job stops after finished. `console.log` is not
    supported. Not handy on debugging.

    ```sh
    (tf)$ bazel test //tensorboard/webapp/...
    ```

2.  Using `ibazel` to auto detect the file changes and use target
    `karma_test_chromium-local` for running on _webapp_ tests.

    ```sh
    (tf)$ ibazel test //tensorboard/webapp/... --test_output=all
    ```

    - `--test_output=all`: for displaying number of tests if using '`fit`'.

3.  To run on a specific test, we can change the target (with `chromium-local`
    suffix). For example,

    ```sh
    //  Run webapp tests on `karma_test` target
    (tf)$ ibazel test //tensorboard/webapp:karma_test_chromium-local

    //  Run notification center tests on `notification_center_test` target
    (tf)$ ibazel test //tensorboard/webapp/notification_center:notification_center_test_chromium-local
    ```

4.  For running a karma console to set break points for debugging purpose, use
    `bazel run`. Access the karma console at port `9876` (For example, `http://<YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS>:9876/`) and click 'DEBUG' button, it pops up another page, where you have to use browser developer console for better debugging.

    ```sh
    (tf)$ bazel run //tensorboard/webapp:karma_test_chromium-local
    ```

    However, you cannot use `ibazel run` in this case. The file watcher is glitchy on running the tests
    when detecting changes. It shows '`a broken pipe`' in terminal. We need to terminate and restart the program manually.

## Adding, Updating, or Removing Frontend Dependencies

For the most part, frontend-specific third-party dependencies are hosted by
[npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm) and managed by
[yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/). Some of our build-time dependencies are
managed by [bazel](https://bazel.build/).

The source of truth for `yarn` is a combination of the `package.json` and
`yarn.lock` files. `package.json` is maintained by us developers and describes
direct dependencies while `yarn.lock` is maintained by the system and describes
the entire tree of transitive dependencies. In reality both files are often
edited automatically by calls to `yarn` and `package.json` only sometimes needs
to be edited by hand.

1.  Install [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install).

2.  Add or modify an entry in the `[dependencies]` or `[devDependencies]`
    section of `package.json`. You can do this manually but often it's preferred
    to use `yarn` from the command line:

    - `yarn add`
      - https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/add/
    - `yarn upgrade`
      - See: https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/upgrade/
      - Alternatively, use `yarn upgrade-interactive`, possibly with the
        `--latest` flag to use an interactive shell tool to hand pick
        dependencies to upgrade.
      - See: https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/upgrade-interactive/
    - `yarn remove`
      - https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/remove/

3.  Run `yarn run yarn-deduplicate`.

4.  Cross reference your updates with the bazel `WORKSPACE` file and determine if any
    bazel dependencies should also be updated.

    - Googlers, for information on how to mirror WORKSPACE dependencies that
      need to be downloaded, refer to go/tensorboard-tf-mirror.

5.  Rebuild and test TensorBoard to make sure it works:
    - `rm -rf node_modules; bazel clean --expunge; yarn`
    - `bazel run tensorboard --logdir <your favorite logdir>`
    - `bazel test --test_output=errors tensorboard/webapp/...`

Commit message:

tweak Dockerfile RUN statement order, add a line to DEVELOPMENT.md describing when the image should be updated

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# How to write your own plugin

You can extend TensorBoard to show custom visualizations and connect to custom
backends by writing a custom plugin. Clone and tinker with one of the
[examples][plugin-examples], or learn about the plugin system by following the
[ADDING_A_PLUGIN](./ADDING_A_PLUGIN.md) guide. Custom plugins can be
[published][plugin-distribution] on PyPI to be shared with the community.

Developing a custom plugin does not require Bazel or building TensorBoard.

[plugin-examples]: ./tensorboard/examples/plugins
[plugin-distribution]: ./ADDING_A_PLUGIN.md#distribution

# How to Develop TensorBoard

TensorBoard at HEAD relies on the nightly installation of TensorFlow: this allows plugin authors to use the latest features of TensorFlow, but it means release versions of TensorFlow may not suffice for development. We recommend installing TensorFlow nightly in a [Python virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io), and then running your modified development copy of TensorBoard within that virtualenv. To install TensorFlow nightly within the virtualenv, as well as TensorBoard's runtime and tooling dependencies, you can run:

```sh
$ virtualenv -p python3 tf
$ source tf/bin/activate
(tf)$ pip install --upgrade pip
(tf)$ pip install tf-nightly -r tensorboard/pip_package/requirements.txt -r tensorboard/pip_package/requirements_dev.txt
```

TensorBoard builds are done with [Bazel](https://bazel.build), so you may need to [install Bazel](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/install.html). The Bazel build will automatically "vulcanize" all the HTML files and generate a "binary" launcher script. When HTML is vulcanized, it means all the script tags and HTML imports are inlined into one big HTML file. Then the Bazel build puts that index.html file inside a static assets zip. The python HTTP server then reads static assets from that zip while serving.

You can build and run TensorBoard via Bazel (from within the TensorFlow nightly virtualenv) as follows:

```sh
(tf)$ bazel run //tensorboard -- --logdir /path/to/logs
```

For any changes to the frontend, you’ll need to install [Yarn][yarn] to lint your code (`yarn lint`, `yarn fix-lint`). You’ll also need Yarn to add or remove any NPM dependencies.

For any changes to the backend, you’ll need to install [Black][black] to lint your code (run `black .`). Our `black` version is specified in `requirements_dev.txt` in this repository. Black only runs on Python 3.6 or higher, so you may want to install it into a separate virtual environment and use a [wrapper script to invoke it from any environment][black-wrapper].

You may wish to configure your editor to automatically run Prettier and Black on save.

To generate fake log data for a plugin, run its demo script. For instance, this command generates fake scalar data in `/tmp/scalars_demo`:

```sh
(tf)$ bazel run //tensorboard/plugins/scalar:scalars_demo
```

If you have Bazel≥0.16 and want to build any commit of TensorBoard prior to 2018-08-07, then you must first cherry-pick [pull request #1334][pr-1334] onto your working tree:

```
$ git cherry-pick bc4e7a6e5517daf918433a8f5983fc6bd239358f
```

[black]: https://github.com/psf/black
[black-wrapper]: https://gist.github.com/wchargin/d65820919f363d33545159138c86ce31
[pr-1334]: https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorboard/pull/1334
[yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/

## Pro tips

You may find the following optional tips useful for development.

### Ignoring large cleanup commits in `git blame`

```sh
git config blame.ignoreRevsFile .git-blame-ignore-revs  # requires Git >= 2.23
```

We maintain a list of commits with large diffs that are known to not have any
semantic effect, like mass code reformattings. As of Git 2.23, you can configure
Git to ignore these commits in the output of `git blame`, so that lines are
blamed to the most recent “real” change. Set the `blame.ignoreRevsFile` Git
config option to `.git-blame-ignore-revs` to enable this by default, or pass
`--ignore-revs-file .git-blame-ignore-revs` to enable it for a single command.
When enabled by default, this also works with editor plugins like
[vim-fugitive]. See `git help blame` and `git help config` for more details.

[vim-fugitive]: https://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive

### iBazel and dev target

To make the devleopment faster, we can use run TensorBoard on dev target with iBazel.

```sh
(tf)$ ibazel run tensorboard:dev -- \
--logdir path/to/logs \
[--bind_all] \
[--port PORT_NUMBER]
```

- `ibazel`: Bazel is capable of performing incremental builds where it builds only
  the subset of files that are impacted by file changes. However, it does not come
  with a file watcher. For an improved developer experience, start TensorBoard
  with `ibazel` instead of `bazel` which will automatically re-build and start the
  server when files change.
- `:dev`: A target to bundle all dev assets with no vulcanization, which makes
  the build faster.
- `--bind_all`: Used to view the running TensorBoard over the network than
  from `localhost`, necessary when running at a remote machine and accessing
  the server from your local chrome browser.

Access your server at `http://<YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS>:<PORT_NUMBER>/` if you are
running TensorBoard at a remote machine. Otherwise `localhost:<PORT_NUMBER>` should
work.

If you do not have the ibazel binary on your system, you can use the command
below.

```sh
# Optionally run `yarn` to keep `node_modules` up-to-date.
yarn run ibazel run tensorboard:dev -- -- --logdir path/to/logs
```

### Development Using Docker

Rather than spend the time setting up a development environment, you may find it
easier to run the project using Docker.

Build the image using the following command from the root directory.
`docker build -t tensorflow/tensorboard .`

<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
The image will only need to be rebuilt when a new dependency is added or an existing
dependency is updated.

=======
>>>>>>> de7b78537 (add ibazel update development.md)
=======
The image will only need to be rebuilt when a new dependency is added or an existing
dependency is updated.

>>>>>>> cd574540b (tweak Dockerfile RUN statement order, add a line to DEVELOPMENT.md describing when the image should be updated)
Once the image is successfully built you can easily start up a development environment
with the following command

```
docker run \
    -p 6006:6006 \
    -v $PWD/tensorboard:/tensorboard/tensorboard \
    -v $MY_LOG_DIR:/logdir \
    tensorflow/tensorboard \
    ibazel run tensorboard:dev -- --logdir /logdir --bind_all
```

TensorBoard will now be accessible at [localhost:6006](http://localhost:6006)

<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
>>>>>>> cd574540b (tweak Dockerfile RUN statement order, add a line to DEVELOPMENT.md describing when the image should be updated)
For continued development you may want to either save the compiled project with
another volume mount or else plan to reuse the same container to prevent having
to repeatedly clean compile the project.

Note that it may still be necessary to run tensorboard natively in order to test
compatibility with other platforms (i.e. OSX)

<<<<<<< HEAD
=======
>>>>>>> de7b78537 (add ibazel update development.md)
=======
>>>>>>> cd574540b (tweak Dockerfile RUN statement order, add a line to DEVELOPMENT.md describing when the image should be updated)
### Debugging Polymer UI Tests Locally

Our UI tests (e.g., //tensorboard/components/vz_sorting/test) for our polymer code base
use HTML import which is now deprecated from all browsers (Chrome 79- had the native
support)and is run without any polyfills. In order to debug tests, you may want to
run a a Chromium used by our CI that supports HTML import. It can be found in
`./bazel-bin/third_party/chromium/chromium.out` (exact path to binary will
differ by OS you are on; for Linux, the full path is
`./bazel-bin/third_party/chromium/chromium.out/chrome-linux/chrome`).

For example of the vz_sorting test,

```sh
# Run the debug instance of the test. It should run a web server at a dynamic
# port.
bazel run tensorboard/components/vz_sorting/test:test_web_library

# In another tab:

# Fetch, if missing, the Chromium
bazel build third_party/chromium
./bazel-bin/third_party/chromium/chromium.out/chrome-linux/chrome

# Lastly, put the address returnd by the web server into the Chromium.
```

### Debugging Angular UI Tests Locally

Here is a short summary of the various commands and their primary function. Please see below for more details. We recommand using `ibazle test` for regular work and `bazel run` for deep dive debugging.

- `bazel test/run`: runs tests once and done.
- `ibazel test`: supports file watching.
- `ibazle run`: provides karma console breakpoint debugging; does not support file watching.
- Both `ibazel test` and `ibazel run` supports `console.log` and `fit/fdescribe`, which are used to narrow down the test amount.

1.  Just run all webapp tests. The job stops after finished. `console.log` is not
    supported. Not handy on debugging.

    ```sh
    (tf)$ bazel test //tensorboard/webapp/...
    ```

2.  Using `ibazel` to auto detect the file changes and use target
    `karma_test_chromium-local` for running on _webapp_ tests.

    ```sh
    (tf)$ ibazel test //tensorboard/webapp/... --test_output=all
    ```

    - `--test_output=all`: for displaying number of tests if using '`fit`'.

3.  To run on a specific test, we can change the target (with `chromium-local`
    suffix). For example,

    ```sh
    //  Run webapp tests on `karma_test` target
    (tf)$ ibazel test //tensorboard/webapp:karma_test_chromium-local

    //  Run notification center tests on `notification_center_test` target
    (tf)$ ibazel test //tensorboard/webapp/notification_center:notification_center_test_chromium-local
    ```

4.  For running a karma console to set break points for debugging purpose, use
    `bazel run`. Access the karma console at port `9876` (For example, `http://<YOUR_SERVER_ADDRESS>:9876/`) and click 'DEBUG' button, it pops up another page, where you have to use browser developer console for better debugging.

    ```sh
    (tf)$ bazel run //tensorboard/webapp:karma_test_chromium-local
    ```

    However, you cannot use `ibazel run` in this case. The file watcher is glitchy on running the tests
    when detecting changes. It shows '`a broken pipe`' in terminal. We need to terminate and restart the program manually.

## Adding, Updating, or Removing Frontend Dependencies

For the most part, frontend-specific third-party dependencies are hosted by
[npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm) and managed by
[yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/). Some of our build-time dependencies are
managed by [bazel](https://bazel.build/).

The source of truth for `yarn` is a combination of the `package.json` and
`yarn.lock` files. `package.json` is maintained by us developers and describes
direct dependencies while `yarn.lock` is maintained by the system and describes
the entire tree of transitive dependencies. In reality both files are often
edited automatically by calls to `yarn` and `package.json` only sometimes needs
to be edited by hand.

1.  Install [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install).

2.  Add or modify an entry in the `[dependencies]` or `[devDependencies]`
    section of `package.json`. You can do this manually but often it's preferred
    to use `yarn` from the command line:

    - `yarn add`
      - https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/add/
    - `yarn upgrade`
      - See: https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/upgrade/
      - Alternatively, use `yarn upgrade-interactive`, possibly with the
        `--latest` flag to use an interactive shell tool to hand pick
        dependencies to upgrade.
      - See: https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/upgrade-interactive/
    - `yarn remove`
      - https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/remove/

3.  Run `yarn run yarn-deduplicate`.

4.  Cross reference your updates with the bazel `WORKSPACE` file and determine if any
    bazel dependencies should also be updated.

    - Googlers, for information on how to mirror WORKSPACE dependencies that
      need to be downloaded, refer to go/tensorboard-tf-mirror.

5.  Rebuild and test TensorBoard to make sure it works:
    - `rm -rf node_modules; bazel clean --expunge; yarn`
    - `bazel run tensorboard --logdir <your favorite logdir>`
    - `bazel test --test_output=errors tensorboard/webapp/...`
